proposal.md, before:

Final Project Proposal
================
2018-11-07

Group Member
------------

-   Jiayi Shen (UNI: js5354)
-   Shan Jiang(UNI: sj2921)
-   Jie Yu (jy2944)
-   Eleanor Zhang(zz2602)

Project Title
-------------

Where you are going: Analysis of Data Science Job Outlook of United States Labor Market in 2018.

Anticipated Dataset:
--------------------

-   [National Occupational Employment Status and Wage Estimates from US Bureau of Labour Statistics (using data covering 2007 until 2017)](https://www.bls.gov/oes/tables.htm)

-   [Data Scientist Job Posts in the U.S on Indeed Website in 2018 August](https://www.kaggle.com/sl6149/data-scientist-job-market-in-the-us#alldata.csv)

Motivation
----------

Intended Final Product
----------------------

#### Part I Background and Introduction

-   Two datasets: one for background check of the job market dynamics for the past decade.
-   Graph 1: Computer and mathematic occupations trend from 2003 to 2018

#### Part II

-   Descriptive Part:

1.  Geographical Visualization

<!-- -->

1.  -   Graph 2: (map of us/potentially a bubble map) Which regions are in high demand of labor with data science skills?

-   Potential suggestions for new graduates: local shortages for data science skills, will this cause a migration or

1.  Skills: what kind of data science skills are in need?(from job description)

-   Top 5 skills; Top 5 tools;
-   Most-desired degree;
-   Most-desired majors;

##### Graphs:

-   Graphs 3. Compare 3 groups: Engineer vs. Data Scientist vs. Data Analyst, Degrees and Majors;

-   Graphs 4. Compare 3 groups: Engineer vs. Data Scientist vs. Data Analyst, Most popular tools

-   Graphs 5. Compare 3 groups: Engineer vs. Data Scientist vs. Data Analyst, Most concerntrated areas;

-   Graphs 6. global-500 companies requirements / other companies requirements comparison?

Anticipated Data Source
-----------------------

Challenges
----------

1.  text mining: for acquiring a clean set of description, we need to extract some keywords which describes the skills, tools and education requirements in our dataset.

2.  Job title classification: Mark the levels of different titles in different companies, data scientist may not be of the same level when companies are of different sizes or different internal governance structure (listed company for example).

Planned Timeline
----------------

Commit message:

Add a dataset for Fortune 500 companies in U.S.

proposal.md, after:

Final Project Proposal
================
2018-11-07

Group Member
------------

-   Jiayi Shen (UNI: js5354)
-   Shan Jiang(UNI: sj2921)
-   Jie Yu (jy2944)
-   Eleanor Zhang(zz2602)

Project Title
-------------

Where you are going: Analysis of Data Science Job Outlook of United States Labor Market in 2018.

Anticipated Dataset:
--------------------

-   [National Occupational Employment Status and Wage Estimates from US Bureau of Labour Statistics (using data covering 2007 until 2017)](https://www.bls.gov/oes/tables.htm)

-   [Data Scientist Job Posts in the U.S on Indeed Website in 2018 August](https://www.kaggle.com/sl6149/data-scientist-job-market-in-the-us#alldata.csv)

-   [The 500 Largest Industrial Corporations in the U.S., Published by Fortune magazine (updated by October 5, 2018)](https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/fortune-500-corporate-headquarters)

Motivation
----------

Intended Final Product
----------------------

#### Part I Background and Introduction

-   Two datasets: one for background check of the job market dynamics for the past decade.
-   Graph 1: Computer and mathematic occupations trend from 2003 to 2018

#### Part II

-   Descriptive Part:

1.  Geographical Visualization

<!-- -->

1.  -   Graph 2: (map of us/potentially a bubble map) Which regions are in high demand of labor with data science skills?

-   Potential suggestions for new graduates: local shortages for data science skills, will this cause a migration or

1.  Skills: what kind of data science skills are in need?(from job description)

-   Top 5 skills; Top 5 tools;
-   Most-desired degree;
-   Most-desired majors;

##### Graphs:

-   Graphs 3. Compare 3 groups: Engineer vs. Data Scientist vs. Data Analyst, Degrees and Majors;

-   Graphs 4. Compare 3 groups: Engineer vs. Data Scientist vs. Data Analyst, Most popular tools

-   Graphs 5. Compare 3 groups: Engineer vs. Data Scientist vs. Data Analyst, Most concerntrated areas;

-   Graphs 6. global-500 companies requirements / other companies requirements comparison?

Anticipated Data Source
-----------------------

Challenges
----------

1.  text mining: for acquiring a clean set of description, we need to extract some keywords which describes the skills, tools and education requirements in our dataset.

2.  Job title classification: Mark the levels of different titles in different companies, data scientist may not be of the same level when companies are of different sizes or different internal governance structure (listed company for example).

Planned Timeline
----------------
